---
title: "Blood Oath Has Been Released!!"
description: My short story Blood Oath has been released!
date: 2022-04-17T18:58:00-04:00

tags:
  - release
  - short story
---

Short(ish) post to sat that my first short story, Blood Oath, is [now available to download on my website](https://vorona.gg/book/BloodOath)!

I'm pretty happy with how it turned out, but I'm curious how other people will feel about it.  I'd love to do an in-depth analysis of it myself, so I might turn this post into that...yeah, I think I'll do that.  There will be major spoilers, and the story is only *checks notes* 23 pages including the front matter (cover, title page, copyright page), so it shouldn't take more than an hour to read.

On that note, let's start on the analysis.

# Asigor Nalan

Asigor was designed to be more of a typical spy character (like Twilight from Spy x Family) than a James Bond style character.  He keeps himself disconnected from individual jobs, and, with rare exception, he relies entirely on his own skill set rather than gadgets during his missions.  This can even be seen in his decision to run ops solo while a team effort would usually be required in a high profile situation such as this killing the leader of a country.  It's possible (aka, extremely likely) that I'll pair him up with someone else during the next short story of his I write, so I can explore how he deals with personal relationships with other people, but that's a conversation for a different day.

Onto his actions within the story (we'll skip the monologue since it's more a tone setter rather than a character moment), the first glimpse of Asigor's character we see is his disdain towards soldiers.  This is definitely a more overarching opinion of the profession in general rather than of these specific soldiers or even the soldiers from Sutton.  As we see in his backstory dump to Olivia on page 10, Asigor grew up during a time of war and has watched the people around him suffer greatly because of it.  There's far more to this than he's said so far, especially in regards to the oddly specific description in the second paragraph of his monologue, but that'll be fleshed out in due time.  I'm not entirely sure how I'll handle that yet, but a fun little reunion with this "arrogant bastard" could be interesting.

After Asigor gets into the party itself, we see that his focus is immediately drawn towards the more artistic side of the culture.  His opinion of the people of Sutton (Suttonians?) stems from the rumours and stories he's heard from merchants and retired soldiers.  Both parties have primarily interacted with Suttonians (we're rolling with it) in a militant setting, so their dedication towards the arts (music and dancing, in this case) throws him off at first.  Once he's adjusted to the realization that even "savages" are interested in more than war, he starts to notice that the stories he's heard about Suttonians are still true with the primary evidence being the fact that most of their conversations focus on war.

As he comes to realize what this culture is actually about, Asigor realizes that they value nearly the same exact things that he does.  This realization triggers pretty severe cognitive discipline within him.  The people who have caused him great suffering, soldiers from foreign lands, are, on the surface, very similar to Suttonians, but the Suttonian culture aligns greatly with his philosophies.  Though Asigor is a man who wishes to see no more suffering, he does understand that the road to peace is paved in blood.  This is the point where Asigor starts becoming open to the idea of joining Sutton in their conquest.

After this, we're introduced to the first secondary character in the story:  Olivia Walker.  We'll talk more about her later (maybe in less detail), and then we'll do a little analysis of their relationship since that takes up a third of the story.

This brings us to page 13 where Asigor is running away from the library.  As a note, he is barefoot to keep his steps silent.  I had that written down in the first two drafts, but I cut it for the third since I couldn't find the right wording to make it flow.  He continues running down some hallways until he encounters some guards.  At this point in the story, he has two choices:  diplomacy or violence.  They obviously wouldn't be alright with him pursuing his goal (killing their Queen), so Asigor's only option for diplomacy would be to lie and then attempt to sneak into the Queen's chambers from a different direction.  He makes that choice since it would involve less suspicion in the long run, but that quickly fails.  Knowing he's the strongest "man" in the room, Asigor throws a few quips before absolutely bodying the guards.  Even when another sixteen guards show up, he never once considers retreating.

An interesting thing to note is Asigor's sparing of the last guard.  She's already essentially useless in a fight now that he's given her PTSD, so Asigor spares the woman.  His goal isn't to kill as many people as possible.  Even though a nontrivial amount of the guards were killed, he did leave a good portion alive (as stated by Lazarus on page 20).  If any of them stopped fighting, then he wouldn't even injure them.  Though it should be noted that he would focus on killing someone who tried to run away since that person might be trying to find backup.

Fun fact:  if you do the math, there are a total of 27 guards he identified (2 out front, 1 leaning over the failing, 8 guarding the doorways, 3 playing cards, 4 roaming the halls, and 9 in the upstairs room).  In this room, he "takes care of" 25 of the guards.  The remaining two, the one leading over the balcony and the one leading the roaming patrol, are in the Queen's chambers.

Speaking of, onto the Queen's chambers.  Asigor is an assassin, and that means he's used to fighting two types of opponents:  large groups of semi-experienced soldiers or bodyguards and a single highly skilled opponent.  In this case, he's faced with two highly skilled opponents.  The splitting of his attention combined with the lack of openings for him to strike results in a firm loss for him until he triggers Grim Reaper.  The exact triggering of this Blood Art varies from user to user, but, for Asigor, it's triggered in a time of need.  He doesn't use his Blood Arts unless he either absolutely has to.  The effects of this specific Blood Art are more...nebulous than the other six, but there is an underlying logic to this school (a better word might be system or even lineage) of magic.

Once the guards are down, Asigor turns towards the Queen.  Their fight is unique in two ways:  the Queen is purposefully trying to avoid her blade touching his and she's using an Etherborn weapon.  Etherborn is impervious to being cut by Grim Reaper, and the Queen knows this, but she makes a point to avoid Asigor's strikes to keep this advantage a secret.  Her line of thinking is that if he doesn't know, she can use it to her advantage and catch him off guard at a moment that's favourable for her.  This doesn't happen, though, as their blades meet more as a consequence of her reactions getting slower rather than the execution of a well thought out plan.  When they do, her advantage is lost and Asigor defeats her.

Onto the second point, though.  The Queen is using an Etherborn weapon.  I will mark this paragraph as a spoiler for future stories since there is very little information on Etherborn in this story.  You have been warned.  Etherborn has the unique ability to allow its wielder to utilize one of the eight effects available in the Blood Art system.  The effect is tied to the weapon itself, so four people using the same weapon will only be able to use that specific effect.  In this case, the effect is similar to Vermilion Mind.  The Queen's senses are heightened and her reactions are quickened in exchange for the burning of her blood.  This effect wanes over time since she has to burn a higher rate to overcome the blood loss she's experiencing.  Asigor, being a natural user of Blood Arts, uses significantly less blood for the same type and magnitude of effect.

Alright, spoilers over, back to the story.  Now we're onto Lazarus!  This character is interesting and will 100% re-appear in later stories.  He's one of the ten Devil Princes, and his goal is pretty obvious:  gain as much power and influence as possible.  This is the exact attitude the people who waged war on Shadow's Heart had.  The Queen begs not for her life but for her people's.  This is the moment Asigor actually makes the choice to join Sutton.  He "kills" Lazarus and formally joins the Queen in her conquest to bring peace to the world.

It's now revealed that, this entire time, there were two Asigor's in the second half of the book.  One was "occupying" Olivia while the other one was fighting upstairs.  The story ends with Asigor noticing one of the other guests.  At this point in time, none of you except my girlfriend and a handful of beta readers for Azure Witch know who this character is, but you're probably reading this after reading a larger book of mine (which definitely has him in it).  I won't spoil his motives, alignment, or even his opinion of Asigor, but I will leave you his name.  Cain.

# Olivia Walker

I like her.  At first, I wasn't sure how much Olivia would be involved in Asigor's overarching story beyond her role as a plot device in this one story, but she grew on me.  She's coming back (obviously).  Because of this, I'll be keeping a lot of things about her secret.

She cares a *lot* about the suffering of innocent people.  She's not only incredibly well read, as seen in the library scene, but she's also had extensive first hand experience helping out those in need.  The job of a soldier extends far beyond fighting, and most of her field experience has been in those roles.  While she approached Asigor out of curiosity, she stays with him for his conversational and analytic abilities.  Yes, his "services" are that of an assassin.  In the town of Sutton, this is a wide spread euphemism.

There's not much more to say about her character at this moment, so we'll dive into Asigor and Olivia's relationship.  They started off by flirting with each other, but neither of them let the other dig deeper than surface level.  Asigor's comments would easily be seen as inflammatory to most people, but Olivia took them as a sign of honesty.  The talk of business mattered to both, yes, but their motives changed during the hallway and library scenes.  The hallway scene with Asigor's lore dump marked the point where Olivia decided to win him over as an ally rather than a business partner.  The library scene, after the book reading, marked the point where Asigor choose to align himself with her.  Olivia's passion and dedication towards proving to him that not all hope was last won him over.

When it comes to the romantic side of their relationship, things are more cut-and-dry.  They're both attractive people who have similar senses of humour and are equally intelligent in different ways.  It's a recipe for success.  The only thing they needed was time to get to know each other.  More of the romantic side of their relationship will be explored in future short stories, but it can already be seen that the troubles they encounter will be more nuanced than one being right and the other wrong.

# Final Thoughts

Overall, I really enjoyed writing this story.  I feel that the plot is focused on the right idea and doesn't let itself get too distracted by other things such as unimportant characters and worldbuilding.  I tried my best to slip some tidbits in there about the culture (dominant vs. non-dominant arms, 14-year-old servers, etc.), but I know that focusing on the world rather than the characters would result in an encyclopedia rather than a short story.  The plot itself is quite simple, and I tried to make Asigor's internal conflict the major focus of the story rather than his mission to kill the Queen.  There are, obviously, a ton of things in the world I'd love to explore, and I'm looking forward to writing about them.  I hope you'll be there to read them.

With that, I'm gonna go fry some steaks for dinner.  Let me know if you find any typos (DM me on Twitter or open a PR [here](https://dev.vorona.gg/digyx/blog)).  See you later, my friend.

Devon Tingley
